1. "and if he then adds a few more (plays notes with voice over) we've got MENDELSSOHN'S "Wedding March"
L.B. Finishes phrase one on piano;
Orchestra does phrase two (Manuscript)
2. "...there are themes that are much more tuneful than those.
Only think of TSCHAIKOVSKY'S Sixth Symphony":
Play from manuscript
3. "...first, there is a short idea, or phrase:"
Play phrase one of Tschaikovsky
"...phrase is repeated, but with some small variation:"
Play phrase two of Tschaikovsky
"...tune takes off in a flight of inspiration:"
Play phrase three of Tschaikovsky*
4. "There are so many examples...take our good old stand-by, BEETHOVEN's Fifth.
On your mark:
Play from manuscript. (Voice over: "Get set; Go")
Or, do you know that haunting melody in the CESAR FRANCK Symphony? Same
thing. First, a phrase:
Play from manuscript. (with voice over) - observe pauses
Or MOZART's Haffner Symphony. Ready:
Play from manuscript (voice over) - observe pauses
5.	"...and I'm sure you'll be surprised to find that you do understand it very
well":
WAGNER:	Tristan Prelude - Play to middle of £th bar after No. 3
6. "...climbing higher and higher, in a frenzy:"
TRISTAN: 4 bars before No. 7 to dbt. of Letter C, fermata - all strings
minus cell!
"...screaming out that first 4 note motive, over and over:"
1 bar before No. 7 to dbt of 3rd bar. Hns 1 and 3, Celli only
"...singing the second 4-note motive again and again:"
No. 7 - 2 bars - Trpts and trbs. only
"...and I'11 bet you hear it all, every note:"
fermata
4 bars before No. 7 to dbt. of C,/(0b., E.H., Cl. fermata on 2nd 8th)
7.	"...while one part of the Orchestra is playing with that motive":
Bars 73-76, clarinet and bassoon
"the strings are playing the same motive, only stretched out in long notes":
Bars 72 - 76, vln. 1, vla, vlc, cb.
"so that together, it makes this wonderful sound":
Bars 72 - 86 - TUTTI
8.	"...The same is true of this seemingly unmelodic section":
Bar 115, with upbs., to bar 116, 2nd beat
"but the theme is right there, only down in the bass instruments":
Same:	bsn., low strings only
"while on top there is exciting counterpoint going on, as in a Bach fugue":
Same:	violins only
"...how different that same passage will sound to you":
Same:	Tutti
9. "...the little motive is being developed on top, over stationary notes on
the bottom":
Letter D to bar 166, dbt. - omit cls. and strgs. (at end)
"But in the middle, two clarinets are having their say about that motive!" :
Same:	clarinets only
"Listen to the whole sandwich now, top, bottom and clarinet filling:"
Same:	tutti (omit strgs. at end)
10.	"... It's all melody - every moment" :
MOZART:	Symphony No. 40, Mvt. I - full performance
11.	"...after all you have learned about melody today."
HINDEMITH:	Concert Music for Strings and Brass, from "Sehrbreit" to end.
12.	"...magnificent outpouring cf melody that it really is:"
BRAHMS:	Symphony No0 U, Final Mvt> - full performance